---
layout: post
title: Week 10 -- Wikipedia and Group Projects
---

Wikipedia is an online encyclopedia created and maintained as an open source project by a community of editors.  It is the largest open source project with over 300,000 active users and over 85,000,000 registered users.  Due to this volume, it is often considered the most important or "best" open source project currently in existence.  However, to me, Wikipedia hasn't played too much of an important role in my life.  Ever since around middle school I was told to shy away from using Wikipedia as a source for my research projects since "anyone" could edit the information.  Thus, I stuck to using peer reviewed websites and other resources on Google to do my research for most things.  I will sometimes use Wikipedia to look up a movie summary/plot since I find their synopses to be really concise.  As for my contributions to Wikipedia, I have yet to make any.  Most of my contributions have been done on Github through either an issue request or pull request, but I do have plans to contribute to Wikipedia soon.  I was thinking of looking at some things I'm interested in such as basketball (NBA) and video games.

This week in class we got the opportunity to look other groups' stand-up reports.  It seems like every group is making a lot of progress and seems to enjoy the project they're working on.  One project that specifically interested me was p5.js which is a graphical library for Javascript.  It struck in particular because some of the contributions they were doing included doing translations from English to Chinese, and it opened my eyes to the fact that coding seems to revolve around the english language.  The only thing they were translating was the comments and documentation, since you can't simply change the english words in Javascript to their Chinese counterparts since those are not keywords in Javascript.  This was just interesting because software development is everywhere and picking up a coding language would then be naturally harder for people who aren't fluent in English (or so it seems).

My group and I's progress for our open source project has been going well too.  This week, we started connecting more with the Tuxemon community and pushed some issues we noticed in the game.  Additionally, we got a pull request(fixed a few typos in the README) to be successfully merged.  The community seems to revolve around just a few people (3-4), but they were able to give feedback for our issues quite quickly and the pull request only took about 4 days to be accepted.  It was nice to see that the community was welcoming towards our issue, feature, and pull requests.  It's also a great sight to see some of your own work being actually implemented into a larger scale project that you wouldn't normally be able to build yourself like Tuxemon.  
