---
layout: post
title: Week 11 -- Covid Open Efforts and Group Projects Continued...
---

This week in class we got to look at the remaining groups'(groups that didn't present on Wednesday the week before) stand-up reports for their open source projects.  There were only three groups left to present and my group was one of them.  As previously mentioned, every group seems to be making progress on their respective projects.  This includes: contacting the community, contributing issue requests, and making pull requests.  Listening to these stand-up reports was definitely a reassuring experience as I was able to see that many groups share the same adversities and triumphs as mine when it comes to attempting to contribute to a large project.

After the remaining groups presented their stand-up reports, each student was tasked with researching an open effort project regarding the ongoing Coronavirus pandemic.  After researching, each student would then share their findings such as what the project is, who created it, and how could one contribute to it.  The project I found is called "CoronaTab."  CoronaTab is a free and open source platform for COVID19 data created by a team from Hoobu (trip planning service).  It can also function as a REST API and browser extension on Google Chrome that's localised into all languages.  The main way one can see the data is through their website, which features tons and tons of visualized data in a neat and organized manner.  The data is scraped/taken from multiple sources with the Johns Hopkins dataset being the main contributor.  Some ways one can contribute to this project are adding quick links for data or correcting historic data.  

As for my group's progress this week on our open source project, we met on our usual Friday date.  This week we took a big step forward in terms of contributing.  Instead of familiarizing ourselves with the game and contributing issue requests, we began trying to fix current ongoing issues such as missing game features or code bugs.  While we had already gotten a few pull requests accepted, these were quite minor tweaks such as fixing a key binding or typo in the README.  But this week we began taking on much larger tasks that could possibly require a lot more time than the previous contributions.  For example, two issues I want to work on include fixing a broken game feature, which may involve implementing a whole new interaction system in the code and developing new sprites/assets for some of the items in the game.  These contribution attempts will definitely be time consuming, but I'm excited to work on them.
