---
layout: post
title: Week 12 -- HFOSS and Business Models
---

This week we moved away from open source efforts regarding COVID-19 and moved towards Humanitarian Free and Open Source Projects(HFOSS) and open source business models.  While all of the open source efforts regarding COVID-19 could be classified as HFOSS, we began to look at other projects outside of the scope of the virus as well. One HFOSS project that particularly caught my eye was Tidepool, which is a tool that helps clinicians and diabetic patients.  Tidepool allows patients to see data from their insulin pump, blood glucose meter, and continuous glucose monitor all in one place.  Tidepool has a massive code base and its user interface for both its product and website are very well polished.

In addition to talking about HFOSS, we also looked at business models regarding open source.  For example, we learned about how RedHat was the first company to make money around open source through subscriptions.  They created their own version of Linux called RedHat Enterprise Linux and charge a fee to use it.  This is just one way businesses have been able to make money off of open source.  Other methods of monetization include charging service fees, donations, and etc.  This type of open core model is now being utilized by many companies today such as Cloudera and MongoDB.

As for the group project progress, we all continued to work on our respective issues.  We didn't meet this week because we all felt like we knew what we were doing, and it was just a matter of continuing to find time to work on our features.  I'm currently trying to implement a new system for the battling that involves buffs and debuffs for combat and also creating new sprites for shop items.  I've been making steady progress on both, and I will most likely send in a pull request this week for the sprites, and a pull request for the new system the week after that. 
