---
layout: post
title: Week 14 -- Project Presentations
---

This week was the final full week of classes at NYU.  In spirit of this, many groups have already began presenting their final projects/presentations in our OSSD class.  My group(Tuxemon) has yet to go, but we are scheduled to present this Friday(05/15/20).  However, I got the courtesy to listen to several other groups present their projects this week.  Both Monday and Wednesday were strictly dedicated to project presentations.  The groups that I got to see present so far are: p5.js, FreeCodeCamp, Inky, OpenStates, and OpenFoodFacts.  Overall, I thought all of the presentations were very well done and it seems everyone made a lot of progress in contributing to their respective projects.  My favorite presentation was definitely FreeCodeCamp because I have been an avid user of FreeCodeCamp for a while now, so just hearing about improvements being made to FreeCodeCamp is a pleasurable experience.  Furthermore, I plan on using their presentations as a guideline to make my group's presentation high quality as well.

As for my open source group project this week, I actually finished up the issue I was working on and sent in a pull request.  I had sent in an earlier pull request, but I closed it due to the initial feedback.  I had not given credit to the creator(me) of the sprites in the CREDITS.md file nor did I associate a license with the assets added to Tuxemon.  Thus, I closed the first pull request and made a new one.  But along the way, I realized I made a few mistakes in the Git repository as I didn't branch correctly and lots of commits were showing up in the pull request outside of my own.  Thus, I spent most of yesterday(05/09/10) trying to fix everything since every time I made a pull request every single file was shown in the "git diff."  I eventually managed to fix it and sent in the new and improved pull request.  Hopefully it gets accepted!  I'm going to work on the other issue I claimed now, and if I have time, I will try to claim and work on some others as well.
