---
layout: post
title: Week 13 -- Final Project Work
---

This week we gave another round of progress reports on our respective group projects.  We got to hear more about where each person is currently at and their plans for the future in terms of their open source group project.  Every one seemed to be making a lot of progress in their respective projects.  One project that seemed to catch my eye was the p5.js project because I remember a classmate mentioning they translated over 20 code examples into Chinese, which I imagine was very annoying to do since javascript is a lot closer to English than it is to any other language.

On Wednesday we were supposed to have an invited speaker teach us about "bash" and command line tools.  However, class was cancelled.  I was actually really looking forward to this class because professor Joanna mentioned that it wouldn't be your typical "intro to bash" sort of talk(which can be easily found on YouTube), but was more geared towards more experienced users.  But I wish for the best for professor Joanna's family situation and I hope the adverse situation passes.

As for my open source group project this week, each of us continued to work on our own respective issue requests.  I'm pretty much done with the icons and will definitely open a pull request this week for it.  I went a little extra and implemented extra icons to use in the future and not just create an icon that was currently being used as a duplicate.  After this pull request I plan on fixing a bugged battle system, which I also claimed as an issue.  If I have more time after that, I will try and either make some more art for the game since I find it very fun to do or find another issue request I can either point out or work on.
